Added development doc about the Operators Catalog release (#11155)
strimzi/strimzi-kafka-operator: development-docs/RELEASE.md

This process should be used only for CVEs in the base images.
Any CVEs in our code or in the Java dependencies require new patch (or minor) release.

## Operators Catalog

In order to make the Strimzi operator available in the [OperatorHub.io](https://operatorhub.io/) catalog, you need to build a bundle containing the Strimzi operator metadata together with its Custom Resource Definitions.
The metadata are described through a `ClusterServiceVersion` (CSV) resource declared by using a corresponding YAML file.

> The bundle for the OperatorHub.io is available in the https://github.com/k8s-operatorhub/community-operators/tree/main/operators/strimzi-kafka-operator GitHub repo.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The bundle for the OperatorHub.io is available in the [Community-Operators](https://github.com/k8s-operatorhub/community-operators/tree/main/operators/strimzi-kafka-operator) GitHub repo.
```

> In order provide the bundle for a new release, you can start looking at a previous one, create a folder for the new release, but making the following changes:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
In order provide the bundle for a new release, you can use the previous one as a base.  
Create a folder for the new release by copying the previous one and make the following changes:
```

  * `metadata.annotations.alm-examples-metadata` section by using the examples from the `packaging/examples` folder (within the Strimzi repo).
  * `containerImage` field with the new operator image (using the SHA).
  * `name` field by setting the new version in the operator name.
  * `customresourcedefinitions.owned` section with the CRDs descriptions.
  * `description` section with all the Strimzi operator information already used for the release on GitHub.
  * `install.spec.permissions` section by using the Cluster Role files from the `packaging/install/cluster-operator` (within the Strimzi repo).
  * `deployments` section by using the Strimzi Cluster Operator Deployment YAML from the `packaging/install/cluster-operator` (within the Strimzi repo) but using the SHAs for the images.
  * `relatedImages` section with the same images as the step before.
  * `replaces` field by setting the old version that this new one is going to replace.
  * `version` field with the new release.

After making all these changes, you can double-check the validity of the CSV by copy/paste its content into the [OperatorHub.io preview](https://operatorhub.io/preview) tool.

### Testing the bundle

> When the operator manifests and metadata files are ready, it is useful to test the operator bundle on an actual Kubernetes and OpenShift cluster.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
When the operator manifests and metadata files are ready, you should test the operator bundle on an actual Kubernetes and OpenShift cluster.
```

This process should be used only for CVEs in the base images.
Any CVEs in our code or in the Java dependencies require new patch (or minor) release.

## Operators Catalog

In order to make the Strimzi operator available in the [OperatorHub.io](https://operatorhub.io/) catalog, you need to build a bundle containing the Strimzi operator metadata together with its Custom Resource Definitions.
The metadata are described through a `ClusterServiceVersion` (CSV) resource declared by using a corresponding YAML file.

The bundle for the OperatorHub.io is available in the https://github.com/k8s-operatorhub/community-operators/tree/main/operators/strimzi-kafka-operator GitHub repo.

In order provide the bundle for a new release, you can start looking at a previous one, create a folder for the new release, but making the following changes:

> * change the `metadata/annotations.yaml` in order to add a channel related to the new release (i.e. `strimzi-0.45.x`) alongside the stable one.

Author: Yeah if it's a patch release i.e. 0.45.1, you don't need to change the 0.45.x channel. I will take your suggestion. Thanks!

> * copy the CRDs and the Cluster Roles YAML to the `manifests` folder by taking them from the `packaging/install/cluster-operator` folder (within the Strimzi repo).

Author: Good spot. Yes.

> * take the `strimzi-cluster-operator.v<VERSION>.clusterserviceversion.yaml` CSV file (by using the new release as `<VERSION>`) in order to update the following:

Author: Yes. At the beginning I said you can start from the proveious one (as a kind of template).

> * take the `strimzi-cluster-operator.v<VERSION>.clusterserviceversion.yaml` CSV file (by using the new release as `<VERSION>`) in order to update the following:

Author: I think that the suggestion from @tomncooper makes it clearer.

>   * `metadata.annotations.alm-examples-metadata` section by using the examples from the `packaging/examples` folder (within the Strimzi repo).

Author: I fixed by using the `examples` folder (as we use the `install` for installation).

  * `containerImage` field with the new operator image (using the SHA).
  * `name` field by setting the new version in the operator name.

>   * `customresourcedefinitions.owned` section with the CRDs descriptions.

Author: Yes. Added.

Create a folder for the new release by copying the previous one and make the following changes:

* if releasing a new minor or major version (rather than fix), change the `metadata/annotations.yaml` to update the second channel listed next to `operators.operatorframework.io.bundle.channels.v1` to the new release version range (e.g. `strimzi-0.45.x`).
* copy the CRDs and the Cluster Roles YAML to the `manifests` folder by taking them from the `install/cluster-operator` folder (within the Strimzi repo).
* take the `strimzi-cluster-operator.v<VERSION>.clusterserviceversion.yaml` CSV file (by using the new release as `<VERSION>`) in order to update the following:
  * `metadata.annotations.alm-examples-metadata` section by using the examples from the `examples` folder (within the Strimzi repo).
  * `containerImage` field with the new operator image (using the SHA).
  * `name` field by setting the new version in the operator name.
  * `customresourcedefinitions.owned` section with the CRDs descriptions, from the `install/cluster-operator` folder (within the Strimzi repo).
  * `description` section with all the Strimzi operator information already used for the release on GitHub.

>   * `install.spec.permissions` section by using the Cluster Role files from the `packaging/install/cluster-operator` (within the Strimzi repo).

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
  * `install.spec.permissions` section by using the Cluster Role files from the `install/cluster-operator` (within the Strimzi repo).
```

>   * `deployments` section by using the Strimzi Cluster Operator Deployment YAML from the `packaging/install/cluster-operator` (within the Strimzi repo) but using the SHAs for the images.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
  * `deployments` section by using the Strimzi Cluster Operator Deployment YAML from the `install/cluster-operator` (within the Strimzi repo) but using the SHAs for the images.
```

* take the `strimzi-cluster-operator.v<VERSION>.clusterserviceversion.yaml` CSV file (by using the new release as `<VERSION>`) in order to update the following:
  * `metadata.annotations.alm-examples-metadata` section by using the examples from the `packaging/examples` folder (within the Strimzi repo).
  * `containerImage` field with the new operator image (using the SHA).
  * `name` field by setting the new version in the operator name.
  * `customresourcedefinitions.owned` section with the CRDs descriptions.
  * `description` section with all the Strimzi operator information already used for the release on GitHub.
  * `install.spec.permissions` section by using the Cluster Role files from the `packaging/install/cluster-operator` (within the Strimzi repo).
  * `deployments` section by using the Strimzi Cluster Operator Deployment YAML from the `packaging/install/cluster-operator` (within the Strimzi repo) but using the SHAs for the images.
  * `relatedImages` section with the same images as the step before.
  * `replaces` field by setting the old version that this new one is going to replace.
  * `version` field with the new release.

> After making all these changes, you can double-check the validity of the CSV by copy/paste its content into the [OperatorHub.io preview](https://operatorhub.io/preview) tool.

Reviewer 3: You should definitely include some testing procedures and not just the preview. The preview is only for the UI.

Author: Hopefully I added enough details related to the test procedure. I also tested them on Kube and OpenShift.
